2a) Solution 1: have boom gates on either side of the train tracks, warning lights flash and the gates lower anytime a train is detected within 100m of the crossing. The lights stop flashing and the gates are raised after the end of last carriage is 50m away from the crossing. 100m is used initially to help the train slow if there is an emergency, and the 50m is used in the second instance to help save time while being safe. Additionally, if a vehicle is detected to be on the tracks for more than 10 seconds, the lights flash and the boom gates lower and they stay lowered and flashing  until nothing has been detected on the tracks for 20 seconds. This allows for any pedestrians that might have been on the tracks to help the vehicle, to have time to evacuate the tracks.
Solution 2: There are boom gates similar to solution 1. However, this time the boom gates and lights are controlled by an ai. This AI is fed data from camera systems located 100m inbound to the crossing, on the crossing, and 50m outbound from the crossing. It makes decisions based upon whether or not the object it sees on the tracks is a train, vehicle resembling a car/truck, pedestrian, or something else such as a bird, small animal, etc. It then takes the inputs (bird, human, train) and follows a simple logic circuit that determines whether or not to lower the boom gates and light up warning lights or vice versa. This AI is also monitored by a human worker, however with this method one human worker can monitor multiple train crossings at a time by feeding the cameras and AI’s decisions to a central computer, which is able to override the AI’s decisions if needed.
2b)
A Golder and others [1] propose an automated railway crossing system that features a warning system that notifies approaching vehicles “well before gate closure” to ensure the safety of vehicles and pedestrians. They also provide estimated waiting times on a LCD screen to notify people when the gates will open, and “anti-collision and line-breaking technology” which detects potential collisions or obstructions.


[1] A. Golder, D. Gupta, S. Roy, M. A. Al Ahasan and M. A. Haque, "Automated Railway Crossing System: A Secure and Resilient Approach," 2023 IEEE 14th Annual Ubiquitous Computing, Electronics & Mobile Communication Conference (UEMCON), New York, NY, USA, 2023, pp. 0247-0253, doi: 10.1109/UEMCON59035.2023.10315973. keywords: {Pedestrians;Wires;Transportation;Railway safety;Logic gates;Traffic control;Mobile communication;IR sensor;LED;Servo Motor;GPS tracking;Direction detection;safety wire},
